Welcome to Zen Garden!

Before you do anything, you should pick where you want to put your house. Drag your house onto a tile.

There are a few rules for planting plants.
1. You must prepare the dirt by shoveling before you can plant.
2. You can only water or fertilize a plant. Doing so to plain dirt would just be wasteful!

Once you have prepared the dirt for planting, go ahead and drag plant over to that plot of land.

Now you have a baby plant planted and ready to be cared for.

Watering your plant will help it grow to the next stage.
You can use fertilizer to help your plant grow quickly, but fertilizer will cost you energy.

If you were paying attention to your energy, you would have seen your energy go down when you placed your house AND when you prepared the dirt.

Placing your house, preparing dirt, planting a plant, fertilizing a plant, and harvesting a plant will all take energy to do. Your energy will slowly refill as time goes by, so don’t worry if you run out.
Water is free so you can water your plants whenever you want to!

You might notice as you play that your plants aren’t growing. To grow your plant to the next stage you must water and fertilize it enough and then you need to sign out of the game and come back to see the plant grow. We hope that you’ll enjoy the game, but we don’t want you to spend all day in your beautiful virtual garden. So take some breaks and maybe you’ll see the next level of plant when you come back!

Once you do get a plant all the way to it’s final stage you can harvest the plant for sunshine! To harvest, just drag the harvest icon down to the fully grown plant. You can’t harvest any plants but the fully grown ones. Have patience, they’ll make it!
Also, don’t be too quick to harvest your plants. There may be some cool effects that will show up from time to time on fully grown plants. You don’t want to miss those!

If you have a plant you want to remove, but it’s not at it’s final stage, just drag the shovel over and prepare the dirt again. Be careful! You won’t get any sunshine for this.

Using sunshine, you can unlock new plants to plant in your garden. Just click on the plant you would like to unlock. If you have enough sunshine the plant will become available.

There are even better ways of refilling your energy or getting more sunshine.
If you click on your house, you can add to your to-do list. You can fill it with anything you want. Perhaps you need to do laundry, remember to thank someone, or even remember to come back to the Zen Garden game tomorrow. You can add them all to you To-Do List.

Once you finish a task on the list, you can click the check mark to complete you task. You’ll notice that it will also restore some of your energy!
If you need to remove an item on the list, you can click the X next to the item to remove it.

Once you’re finished with your To-Do list, just click the X in the upper right of that window and you’ll be back in your garden.

To increase your sunshine, you just need to fill out a journal entry.
Click on the journal in the toolbar. This will bring up the journal window. Simply write down your thoughts and anything else you need to in the box, and then use the sliders to describe your emotions. Then you just hit submit. Once you have submitted, you can click the X in the upper right of that window to go back to your garden. Now you have more sunshine as well!
